<h1 id="doxygen_commenting_convention">Doxygen Commenting Convention</h1>

<h2 id="comment_blocks">Comment Blocks:</h2>

<h3 id="general">General:</h3>

<p><code>/*! \brief Brief description.<br>
&nbsp;*         Brief description continued.<br>
 &nbsp;*<br>
 &nbsp;*  Detailed description starts here.<br>
 &nbsp;*/</code></p>

<p>Detailed description continues after empty line: the \brief holds for the whole paragraph!!!</p>

<h3 id="commenting_a_class">Commenting a Class:</h3>

<p><code>/*! \class Test<br>
 &nbsp;* \brief A test class.<br>
 &nbsp;*<br>
 &nbsp;*  A more detailed class description.<br>
 &nbsp;*/</code></p>

<h2 id="commenting_after_a_member">Commenting after a Member:</h2>

<p><code>int age; //! Brief description.</code></p>

<h2 id="other_usefulnesses">Other Usefulnesses:</h2>

<ul>
<li><code>\return</code>     &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;describe what the method / function in question returns</li>
<li><code>\param</code>      &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;describe the input parameters of a method/function</li>
<li><code>\throws</code>     &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;describe what the method/function throws when there is an error</li>
<li><code>\invariant</code> </li>
<li><code>\see</code>        &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;cross-reference other classes, functions, methods, variables etc</li>
</ul>

<h2 id="example">Example:</h2>

<p><code>/*!<br>
 &nbsp;*   \param height the height of the cylinder<br>
 &nbsp;*   \param radius the radius of the cylinder<br>
 &nbsp;*   \return The volume of the cylinder<br>
 &nbsp;*   \see calculateCircleArea()<br>
 &nbsp;*/<br>
 double calculateCylinderVolume(double h,&nbsp;double r)&nbsp;{<br>
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;double result(0.0); //! The volume of the cylinder<br>
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;result = r^2*M_PI*h;<br>
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;return result;<br>
 }</code></p>

<p>The documentation and variable result here are slightly unnecessary, it&#8217;s just an example.
 The best code doesn&#8217;t have to be commented (e.g. <br>
<code>calculateCylinderVolume(double height, double radius)</code> <br>
  technically speaks for itself as opposed to <br>
<code>volume_calculation(double x, double r3)</code><br>
   )</p>

<p><h2 id="terminal_commands">Terminal Commands:</h2>
   When in root directory (e.g. neuro-1) containing the necessary CMakeLists.txt and Doxyfile,
   execute: <br> <br>
   <code>cmake ./</code> (if this has not already been executed before) <br>
   <code>make doc</code><br>
   <code>doxygen Doxyfile</code><br></p>

<p>NB. Don&#8217;t execute <code>doxygen -g</code>, as this regenerates the Doxyfile, erasing whatever
   configuration was in there previously.</p>
